#Ricochet

Thank you for taking the time to look into this project! Ricochet is a simple mobile game which is very similar to an arcade shooter, except the player cannot move, and they can only aim by reflecting bullets off walls that they draw. I chose this concept to take advantage of minimalistic touch controls while still keeping gameplay fresh. Over time, I added new features such as different enemy types and different game modes.

Ricochet is my first attempt at developing a mobile game, but surprsingly the biggest challenge was not adapting to a new type of input. As the project grew, I realized the architecture relied too heavily on a few rather large classes and singletons, especially for the UI included in the game. The overuse of the singleton pattern ended up being a byproduct of trying to condense the player and other elements all into one class; trying to fulfill dependencies using other strategies would make these scripts even more convoluted, and having learned about singletons recently I thought I had found the perfect solution. I learned my lesson the hard way and realized that trying to add a single feature or fix a single bug in such tightly coupled code quite literally made a mountain out of a mole hill.

However, having learned this as I developed Ricochet, I was able to implement different solutions to help prevent any more "spaghetti code" from appearing seemingly without my knowledge. Once I had the idea to add new enemy types, I converted the "Enemy" class into an abstract one in order to provide an unchangeable and simple base for each enemy, while also taking away the possibility of adding complicated switch statements into that class. I also began to take advantage of events in order to de-couple certain elements which would have several instances during gameplay, which I realized would also help performance down the line, and allow me to reuse certain scripts for other projects or even other objects.

I might try fix the architecture for this project even more further down the line, but, failures aside, my biggest opportunity for this project was being able to design a concept reasonably within my scope and fully commit to finishing it. Before this project, I often found my other ideas far too overwhelming because I didn't consider how a game can mature through development; the first ideas you have are not always the best option, whether they aren't as fun as something else, less intuitive, or otherwise. For Ricochet I simply focused on a solid foundation and allowed myself to have fun creating new ideas as the game started to form. 

For future projects I am now fully prepared to up my organization game; I've begun to notice that even my naming schemes and file organziation aren't particularly great themselves. What I've learned from my success as well as my failure with this project is that I can't predict the future, even for something that I create. I was particularly proud of my concept being so simplistic yet hopefully effective, so I went in to the project thinking that organization would not be much of a priority for me, but that only limited my development later on, and it limits my skills in grand scheme of things. Even so, I thoroughly enjoyed the challenges and creativity that developing Ricochet brought me, and I am confident in what I created and what I will now be able to create because of it.
